Recettes en mode txt

Palak tofu (https://www.facebook.com/watch/?v=1705739737474344)

Ingredients:
5 pieces garlic 
1 long green chili pepper 
1 onion 
1 medium piece ginger 
2 tomatoes 
350g extra firm tofu 
2 tbsp + 1 tsp avocado oil 
1 tsp cumin seeds 
1 tsp fennel seeds 
1 tsp salt 
1 tsp turmeric 
2 tsp garam masala 
1 tsp ground coriander 
300g spinach 
1 cup coconut cream 

Directions:
1. Roughly chop the garlic and long green chili pepper. Dice the onion, ginger, and tomato. Pat dry the extra firm tofu with a paper towel, then slice into bite sized cubes 

2. Heat up a sauté pan to medium heat. Add 2 tbsp avocado oil followed by the cumin seeds and fennel seeds. Fry the seeds for about 45 seconds. Add the onions, ginger, garlic, green chili, and salt. Sauté for 5-7mins. Add the turmeric, garam masala, and ground coriander. Give the pan a good stir 

3. Add the tomatoes and sauté for 3-4mins. Add a good handful of the spinach and stir to wilt them down. As the spinach wilts, add more spinach and repeat until all the spinach is done 

4. Add the coconut cream and give the pan a good stir. Transfer the mixture to a blender and blend on medium for about 20 seconds (careful not to blend too high or it will turn into soup) 

5. Heat up the pan back to medium heat and add 1 tsp avocado oil followed by the extra firm tofu. Sear the tofu for a few minutes, then turn the heat off and allow the pan to cool for a minute. Pour in the creamed spinach and give the pan a good stir.  Plate and serve with rice or naan (or both!)


Bean Crispy Salad (https://www.pickuplimes.com/recipe/three-bean-crispy-rice-salad-1691?utm_source=Pinterest&utm_medium=organic)

INGREDIENTS
~ For 3 servings ~

Fried rice
2 cups cooked white rice* or cauliflower rice
1 Tbsp vegetable oil

Dressing
1 small shallot, thinly sliced
2 garlic cloves, crushed
1 lime, juiced
¼ cup sodium-reduced soy sauce
3 Tbsp olive oil
2 Tbsp maple syrup
1 Tbsp toasted sesame seeds

Salad base
1½ cups cooked kidney beans
1½ cups cooked chickpeas
1½ cups cooked pinto beans
¼ cup fresh parsley, chopped
1 cucumber 

DIRECTIONS
1. Cook the rice according to the package instructions. Then spread it out on a large tray and let it cool off.
2. Add oil to a large pan and heat over medium-high.
3. Press rice into a flat layer on the pan and cook for about 15 - 20 minutes, or until golden and crispy to your liking. Toss once or twice while cooking.
4. Meanwhile, mix the dressing ingredients together in a small bowl. Set aside.
5. Add the beans and parsley to a large bowl.
6. Break the rice into bite-sized clumps and add them to the bowl. When ready to enjoy, pour over the dressing and toss to coat. Enjoy!



1 bloc de tofu ferme
15 g (2 c. à soupe) de fécule de maïs
2 pincées de sel
60 ml (4 c. à soupe) d’huile de canola
60 ml (4 c. à soupe) de sauce soya
60 ml (4 c. à soupe) de sirop d'érable 
30 ml (2 c. à soupe) d’huile de sésame grillé
10 ml (2 c. à thé) de vinaigre de riz
90 ml (6 c. à soupe) de graines de sésame grillées

1. Avec les doigts, défaire le tofu en morceaux de la grosseur d’une petite bouchée et mettre dans un bol. Ajouter la fécule de maïs, le sel, et bien mélanger. 
2. Dans une poêle antiadhésive, à feu moyen-élevé, chauffer l’huile. Ajouter le tofu et faire sauter durant 5 min en brassant régulièrement, jusqu’à ce que les petits morceaux de tofu soient bien colorés. 
3. Dans un petit bol, mettre la sauce soya, le sirop d'érable, l’huile de sésame grillé et le vinaigre de riz, puis mélanger. 
4. Verser la sauce sur le tofu et mélanger afin de bien enrober tous les morceaux. Ajouter les graines de sésame grillées, bien mélanger et réserver au chaud.



Mapo Tofu Udon

Ingredients

Tofu Crumble
1 block of firm tofu (crumbled)
1 tbsp cornstarch
1/2 tbsp oil
2 cloves garlic
1 spring onion (white part)
1/2 tbsp ginger
1 tbsp chili crisp oil (preferably something with sichuan peppercorns)
1 tbsp doubanjiang (or gochujang)
1 tbsp Light Soy Sauce
1/2 tbsp Dark Soy Sauce
1 tbsp Sesame oil
1 tsp Rice Vinegar

Creamy tofu sauce
Silken tofu
1/2 tbsp white miso paste
1 tbsp nutritional yeast
1/2 tbsp sesame paste
salt to taste

500g udon noodles (fresh or frozen)

Additional toppings: extra green onion, toasted sesame seeds

Instructions

Cook udon according to package directions. Drain and toss with a little sesame oil to keep from sticking. Set aside.

Blend the creamy sauce.

Heat a splash of oil in a skillet over medium-high heat.

Add the crumbled tofu with the cornstarch until golden.

Add garlic and ginger; cook until fragrant.

Add the rest of the ingredients and cook until golden and crispy.

Serve

Place cooked udon in bowls.

Spoon creamy tofu sauce over the noodles and add the tofu crumbles.

Garnish with green onion and sesame seeds.

Notes / Tips

If you want extra heat, add a pinch of red chili flakes or more chili oil.





Creamy Roasted Cauliflower Ramen
Serves: 3

Ingredients
1 cauliflower
Olive oil
300 g silken tofu
2 tbsp white miso paste
1 tbsp soy sauce
400 ml vegetable stock
400 ml coconut milk
2 cloves garlic
1 thumb-sized piece of ginger
3 × 100 g packs ramen noodles
Green oignons, to finish
Chilli oil, to finish
Fresh coriander, to finish

Before You Start
Preheat oven to 390 °F
Line a large baking tray

Method
1. Prep
Slice the cauliflower into florets
Dice the garlic and ginger
Slice the spring onions (if using for garnish)
2. Roast the Cauliflower
Spread cauliflower florets on the baking tray
Drizzle or spray with olive oil and add a pinch of salt
Roast for 20 minutes, until golden and crispy
Set aside some cauliflower for garnish
3. Make the Creamy Broth
Add the remaining roasted cauliflower to a blender
Add:
Silken tofu
White miso paste
Soy sauce
Coconut milk
Vegetable stock
Blend until completely smooth
4. Cook the Broth
Heat a drizzle of oil in a saucepan
Fry the garlic and ginger for 2 minutes
Pour in the blended broth
Bring to a gentle simmer
Add a splash of water if needed to loosen
5. Cook the Noodles
Cook ramen noodles according to packet instructions
Drain
6. Assemble
Divide noodles between bowls
Ladle over the creamy broth
Top with crispy roasted cauliflower
Finish with chilli oil and fresh coriander

On a ajouté des œufs mollets et des feuilles de nori



Creamy Peanut Ramen with Enoki, Bok Choy & Egg
Serves: 4


Ingredients
Olive oil
5 cloves garlic, finely chopped
3inch piece ginger, finely chopped
Vegetables
1 enoki mushrooms, ends trimmed
4 baby bok choy, quartered

Protein
1 block of extra-firm tofu, crumbled
4 eggs, soft-boiled
Nori sheets, sliced or torn
5½ cups vegetable stock
4 portions ramen noodles
6 tbsp peanut butter
4 tbsp soy sauce, plus more to taste
2 tsp rice vinegar
2 tsp sesame oil, plus more to finish if needed
1½ tbsp cane sugar
3 tbsp roasted peanuts, crushed
2 green onions, chopped
Small handful fresh cilantro
3 tbsp chili oil (or to taste)
2 tbsp white sesame seeds

Instructions
Boil you eggs for 6-7 min and immediately transfer them to an ice bath for 5 min. Peel and set aside.
Heat olive oil in a medium stock pot over medium-high heat.
Add enoki mushrooms and the bok choy and cook until golden. Set aside.
Add olive oil, garlic and ginger; sauté 30 seconds until fragrant.
Add crumbled tofu and sauté 5–7 minutes, lightly golden.
Stir in peanut butter until everything is coated.
Pour in vegetable stock and bring to a gentle boil.
Add soy sauce, rice vinegar, sesame oil, and cane sugar. Stir well.
Simmer for 5 minutes.
Cook ramen noodles separately according to package directions.
Divide noodles between bowls and ladle broth, tofu, and vegetables over top.
Finish with soft-boiled eggs, nori, peanuts, green onion, cilantro, chili oil, and sesame seeds.


Serves 4
3-4 Garlic Cloves
15g Ginger
1 Large Shallot
1 Small Red Chilli
3 Tbsp Roasted Almonds (or Peanuts)
1 Large Cauliflower (About 1kg)
1 Tbsp Hot Smoked Paprika
1 Tsp Chilli Powder (Optional)
1 Tbsp Mild Curry Powder
½ Tbsp Tomato Purée
1 x 400g Tin Coconut Milk
1 x 400g Tinned Chopped Tomatoes
1 Tbsp Almond Butter (Optional, or Sub for Peanut Butter)
120g Red Split Lentils
1 Vegetable Stock Cube
225ml Water
3 Tbsp Pickled Onions (or Swap for Lime Juice for Acidity)
Olive Oil
Salt and Pepper

Preheat the oven to 200°C.
Mince the garlic and ginger (no need to peel the ginger). Finely dice the shallot. Finely slice the chilli. Roughly chop the almonds.

Heat a large pot or saucepan with a good drizzle of olive oil over medium heat. Add the shallots and cook for 5-6 mins until translucent.
Meanwhile, chop the cauliflower into bite sized pieces and set aside any leaves. Add the cauliflower florets to a large baking tray and drizzle with olive oil, salt and pepper and half of the hot paprika. Toss well and roast for 15 mins, then give them a shake and add the cauliflower leaves to the tray and roast for another 15 mins until the cauliflower and leaves are roasted and golden on the edges.

Add the remaining smoked paprika, chilli if using, curry powder, garlic, ginger and tomato purée to the pot and cook for 1-2 mins, stirring continuously, until fragrant. Take care not to burn them. Then add the lentils, coconut milk, tinned tomatoes, almond butter, stock cube and water. Bring to the boil and then lower to a simmer. Cook for 25-30 mins until the lentils are tender.

When the lentils are cooked through, blend them into a creamy sauce or leave them as they are, both ways are delicious.
Add the cauliflower and leaves to the lentils and top with the fresh chilli, pickled onions, and roasted almonds and a drizzle of olive oil to finish.




