Vegan Burrito Bowl (Better than Chipotle!)
Serves: 4

Ingredients
Protein:
Sofritas and/or
Mexican Black Beans
Cilantro-Lime Rice:
1 cup (190g) white Jasmine rice*
1 bay leaf
1 ½ cups (360 mL) room temperature water
½ teaspoon kosher salt, more to taste
2 teaspoons olive oil, divided
1 medium lime, zested + 1 ½ tablespoons juice
½ tablespoon lemon juice
1 cup (16g) fresh cilantro leaves and tender stems, chopped
Fajita Veggies:
1 ½ tablespoons avocado oil (or oil of choice)
1 medium to large red onion, thinly sliced
1 large green bell pepper, thinly sliced into strips**
½ tablespoon fresh oregano, finely chopped (or [illisible] teaspoon dried Mexican oregano)
½ teaspoon kosher salt
Freshly cracked black pepper
Toppings (optional):
Charred Corn and Tomato Salsa (recipe below) (or salsa of choice)
Lazy Guacamole (recipe below)
Chopped cilantro
Vegan sour cream
Shredded romaine lettuce

Method
Make the protein of your choice. Both the Sofritas and Mexican Black Beans can be made a few days ahead of time.
Make the Charred Corn and Tomato Salsa, if using.
Prep the rice. Add the rice to a bowl under cold tap water and rinse for 1 minute while you agitate the rice with your hands.*** Drain in a fine-mesh sieve and transfer the rice to a medium saucepan. Add the water, ½ teaspoon kosher salt, bay leaf, and 1 teaspoon oil to the rice, stir well.
Cook the rice****. Bring to a boil, then reduce the heat to a simmer. Cover the pan of rice and simmer for 7 minutes, without stirring, until all liquid is absorbed and the rice is tender (you may want to uncover once or twice to ensure it's at a simmer and not at a boil, but don't stir). Take off the heat, uncover the pan, layer a clean dish towel on top of the pan, and place the lid back on. Steam for 10 minutes.
Finish the rice. Remove the bay leaf and fluff the rice with a fork. Stir in the lime zest, lime juice, lemon juice, and cilantro. Toss, and season with salt. If desired, add the extra teaspoon of olive oil for a little richness.
Meanwhile, make the Fajita Veggies. Heat the 1 ½ tablespoons oil in a 12-inch frying pan over medium-high heat until the oil shimmers. Add the peppers, onions, oregano, ½ teaspoon kosher salt, and pepper to season. Toss occasionally but not too often, and cook for 8 to 10 minutes, or until peppers are tender-crisp and the onions are starting to get caramelized. If there are lots of brown bits on the bottom of the pan, you can deglaze with a splash of water.
Make the Lazy Guacamole, if desired (recipe below).
Assemble the bowls: Layer some cooked rice into bowls, top with Sofritas and/or Mexican Black Beans, add a scoop of fajita veggies, a scoop of salsa, and a scoop of guacamole. If desired, finish with chopped cilantro and other toppings, such as vegan sour cream or shredded romaine lettuce.
